Welcome to the Plant-Free MD podcast
with Dr. Anthony Chaffee, where we
discuss diet and nutrition and how this
affects health and chronic disease and
show you how you can use this to
optimize your health and happiness both
mentally and physically.
Hello everyone, this is Dr. Anthony
Chaffee. And today's interview will be
with Professor Thomas Seyfried in what I
think is probably the most important
interview I've ever done. Professor
Seyfried is one of the world's foremost
experts in cancer and cancer biology and
research. And he has actually shown
quite conclusively that our
understanding of cancer is all wrong.
And by being all wrong, our approaches
to treating it are all wrong. And so
we're not getting the results that we
should and could be.
So please, if you know anyone with
cancer or anyone at all who'd find this
interesting, please share this. This is
very important to get this message out.
So please get the word out there. Please
share this video. It's very important.
Thank you very much. All right, hello
everyone. This is Dr. Anthony Chaffee
and I'm here today with a very special
guest, someone who I've long admired his
work, Professor Thomas Seyfried of
Boston College. Professor Seyfried,
thank you so much for joining us. How
are you?
Yeah, well thank you very much, Anthony.
It's a real pleasure to be here. Yeah,
thanks.
So I was just going to say for people
that aren't familiar with your work, can
you tell us a bit about yourself and
what you do and and some of your
current projects?
Yeah, well thanks. I'm a professor of
biology at Boston College.
I I teach cancer metabolism
every semester
to a select group of undergraduate and
graduate students. I also teach
general biology to the
the folks that are not not science
majors.
Like like the economists and political
science folks and English majors and
those guys get the get to try to
increase scientific literacy among the
population. Our research program
we have a very active research program
supported by private foundations.
And our goal is to develop diet drug
therapies for managing
cancer. And I mean all all types of
cancer. So that's our that's our big
thrust right now is what is what is the
most efficacious diet drug combinations
that can manage cancer
without inducing toxicity to any of the
normal cells or tissues of our body.
And what we do then is we collaborate
with clinics that are treating cancer
patients throughout the world and we
share the knowledge that we have from
our preclinical studies with the
directors of these clinics so that they
can start applying metabolic therapy,
non-toxic metabolic therapy to their
patients in these clinics. And the
success that we're hearing and coming
back is quite astonishing how this is
working. So we do we ferret out
everything before we put it on patients
and the my clinical colleagues will then
apply it to the patients. So we have
everything
planned in advance and we get
feedforward feedback information. So
what we do is we we tweak our systems in
house here to see if we can improve
therapeutic efficacy and then share that
again with the clinical groups. And
we're constantly making more and more
advances and perfections in the in the
strategy that will eventually become the
standard of care for all cancer
patients. That is metabolic therapy.
Yeah, well I I certainly hope so and I I
know I've read you know some of your
papers and and specifically on like
glioblastoma multiforme, which is
something that I mean in neurosurgical
residency at the moment. So that's
that's obviously
the most common things that we see and
is is absolutely devastating
disease. Obviously without any sort of
treatment people on average live about
three months. With treatment they make
it you know you know 15 to 18 months.
And and this is a very very devastating
illness to watch watch someone have to
go through. You you have obviously
copious amounts of of publications and
some of your publications talk about
cancer as a metabolic disease and
specifically
dysfunction of the mitochondria.
Can you can you talk a bit about that?
Yeah, so
I mean this goes back to the work of
Otto Warburg
in the 1920s and 30s and 40s
where he defined that cancer originated
from damage to
mitochondria.
And that then elicited a whole series of
changes forcing
the cell into a fermentation mechanism
to survive. And and we we have validated
and confirmed Warburg's original
finding. So in order to do that, what I
did was to go through the in through the
liter the scientific literature looking
looking at
electron mic mic micrographs
very high
magnification
of my of mitochondria in tissues because
you can't see them under light
microscope microscopy. In order to look
at the structure of the mitochondria in
the cytoplasm of the cell you need you
really need electron
electron microscopy, scanning electron
microscopy. And then when you look at So
what I did is I went and I looked at all
the major cancers probably representing
95% of all cancer deaths caused by by
these kinds of cancers.
And and I went back through the 50s and
60 1950s, 60s, 70s because in a lot of
medical schools people would be looking
at cancer tissue with electron
microscopy. And then you go to those
papers and and you look and see what
they found with respect to the the
number and structure of the mitochondria
in those tissues. And invariably they
were abnormal structurally. And even
even if one were to isolate them and
look at the biochemistry it was
abnormal.
So we have never found normal
mitochondria in any kind of a major
cancer. Okay, so if you don't have
normal mitochondria, that means your
cells are not going to be able to
generate energy through normal
respiratory systems like oxidative
phosphorylation. And this is exactly
what Warburg said. He said mitochondria
oxidative phosphorylation becomes
irreversibly damaged in all cancers
regardless of where they come from,
thereby forcing them into a fermentation
mechanism. And that's what the
characteristics of all cancer cells are.
They ferment. And and then what we did
is what we did is we Well, Warburg knew
glucose was the lactic acid fermentation
derived from glucose was the major fuel
at that time. We have now defined
glutamine
as a second fermentable fuel. The field
had thought for many years that
glutamine was being respired. No, it's
not respired, it's fermented. So the two
fermentation fuels that drive the
majority if not all cancers are
a sugar fermentation and an amino acid
fermentation. And without the glucose
and glutamine, no cancer cell can
survive. So our our goal is to
scientifically validate fermentation
mechanism for a glutamine and and show
how Warburg was right on his original
description, but he also did not have
new information which would clarify and
saw and and resolve this entire cancer
issue. And we're in the process of doing
this right now. Yeah. That's fantastic.
And and so
what are what are some of the things
that you that can disrupt the
mitochondria to make them precipitate
cancer and how does that how does that
go about? You know, I've seen you know
some of you talk to me you talk about
how this actually precipitates the
genetic
mutations that we see and and attribute
blame to as a causative.
But you're saying that that's actually a
knock-on effect. Yeah, so they're all
mutations are all downstream
epiphenomena. As as are most of what
people are studying today. They
are all downstream, the angiogenesis,
the failure in apoptosis and all these
kinds of things. They're all downstream
of the original damage to the
mitochondria. So to answer specifically
your question, it's called the oncogenic
paradox. And this paradox has
perplexed the cancer field for decades.
In other words,
how is it possible that you could get
cancer from a whole range of different
kind of insults? How what is it what is
the common pathophysiological
mechanism that could underlie this
range of cancer initiators? Like for
example, some people women
may get breast cancer from a clogged
milk duct. Another one may get it from
some sort of viral infection. Another
one may get it from a unhealed wound.
There's a whole variety of different
ways that could
elicit a breast cancer. You can do the
same thing. You can consider the same
thing for possible colon cancers or
bladder cancers or lung cancers or any
of these kinds of things. In other
words, there's not any one of course
smoking would damage the mitochondria in
certain lung tissues and possibly other
tissues, intermittent hypoxia you know,
radiation,
chronic inflammation, any any of these
kinds of insults could damage a cell in
a particular tissue, damage the
mitochondria of a cell in a particular
tissue leading to disregulated cell
growth in that tissue. And the
definition of cancer is cell division
out of control or disregulated cell
growth. How does that happen? It happens
from damage to the mitochondria in a
particular cell or populations of cells
in a particular tissue a eliciting a
growth a disregulated growth. And that's
the oncogenic paradox. So, you don't
always get cancer from a single insult.
It could come from a variety of insults.
The bottom line is that you end up with
cells that are disregulated in their
cell growth, all of which are
fermenting.
And it's important to recognize that the
mitochondria of our cells is the
controller of the cell cycle. So, when
that organelle becomes defective, the
cell falls back into a
disregulated cycle leading to
this is the way
all cells on the planet
evolved before oxygen came into the
atmosphere 2.5 billion years ago. We had
living cells on the planet before oxygen
was in the atmosphere and they were all
fermenting and they all had disregulated
cell growth. So, the cancer cells in
bodies are simply falling back on these
ancient pathways that have always
existed even before respiration even
before the origination of the
mitochondria. So, the cells are just
simply falling back and as long as they
have fermentable fuels in the
environment, they're very difficult to
kill. Radiation and chemo and all these
things that we use are not
at the heart of the problem. As a matter
of fact, some of the standards of care
actually facilitate the availability of
fermentable fuels making the the
management of the disease impossible.
So, that's why the current standard of
care makes no sense when one considers
the origin of the disease and the
concepts of evolutionary biology.
Yeah. I I did pretty study you know a
number of years ago where it spoke about
you know when people go into a ketogenic
diet and I'm speaking specifically about
using ketosis in order to fight cancer
and and talk about mitochondria
specifically and showing that
when in a state of ketosis, you actually
your mitochondria first of all
were more efficient and they also
increased in number. And so it you know
it's this
sort of mechanism that
would would protect from cancer.
What is it about eating carbohydrates
and not being in ketosis that just jams
up our our mitochondria so much?
Well, I don't I don't think the
carbohydrates
jam up the mitochondria. Mhm. What what
happens is excessive amounts of
carbohydrates
facilitate the
causes an inflammatory condition in the
body. And it's this it's this elevated
inflammation the state of an
inflammation that
contributes to the damage. So, you know,
sugar itself is not a carcinogen.
However,
chronic consumption of excessive
carbohydrates
can put the body in an imbalanced
nutritional state. And that's what
elicits it's not only cancer, it's type
2 diabetes, it's Alzheimer's disease,
it's cardiovascular disease.
Essentially, it's all of the major
chronic diseases that we are currently
suffering from is the result of
excessive amounts of carbohydrates in
the diet. We as a species did not evolve
to eat large amounts of carbohydrates.
It was only a seasonal kind of
situation. A ripe fruit, a ripe berry or
something like this would be the sweet
maybe honey. It wasn't chronic exposure
to high levels of carbohydrates that are
coming from the foods that we presently
have in our societies. And that is
ultimately the origin of the majority of
chronic diseases that we have is a a
diet that what is does not fit our
evolutionary past. Yeah, I 100% agree
with you on that and and that's
something that I've sort of argued for a
while now which is that you know the
chronic diseases that we're we're
treating nowadays you know exactly as
you've outlined are are not diseases per
se but you know toxicities and
malnutrition toxic build up of species
inappropriate diet and a lack of species
specific nutrition. And and you build up
these toxins as I sort of mentioned to
you before before I started filming you
know I got into this like when I took
cancer biology and we talked about all
the carcinogens you know at the time
this was 20 years ago
there was we were told about there's 136
known carcinogens just in Brussels
sprouts and over 100 in mushrooms and so
on. So,
you know plants obviously using defense
chemicals to stop predation or deter
predation this can build up and cause
these these toxic effects in our body
and Well, well let me say that I I think
that's true for the industrially
produced vegetables. I think organic
vegetables if one were to use natural
fertilizers you know um
you know
as as would be as would be appropriate.
I think you can reduce significantly
but the problem is the
organic foods are hard to come by.
There's no known it's not known whether
they're really organic or not. Yeah. Um
I I I I don't think there's any
regulatory commission of free range
animals or organic plants. I mean this
is what we evolved to eat. They were all
organic you know 50,000 years ago. There
was no industrial harvesting of foods.
But but I but I think that organically
grown vegetables
if one could do that uh
you know with natural fertilizers I
think those would be very very healthy
along with any other free range
meat products or things like this. The
problem is they're not convenient for
the majority of people in the society.
You know, a drive up McDonald's
hamburgers a hell of a lot easier than
going out and shooting a deer in the
woods. You know,
it's just the way our society is. And
our demands on our time and what we do
prevent us from actually rebalancing our
physiology. But yet we put ourselves at
risk for cancer and all these other
chronic diseases
by the convenience of our lifestyle.
Yeah.
Yeah, and I I certainly agree like any
any sort of you know whole foods
approach you're going to be in much
better
stead.
You know, one of the things that that
you know we went through was actually a
guy from Berkeley Professor Bruce Ames
and he published in 1989 some work
looking at comparison to Alar which was
a
a pesticide used on apples at the time
they were trying to ban it.
And he actually showed that he was
looking specifically in mushrooms that
that mushrooms had around 10,000 times
the amount of natural insecticides and
pesticides by weight as as the Alar
would get
pumped on these plants and that it was
it was more likely to cause cancer the
natural ones as well.
But yeah, 100% you know obviously you
know
pesticides and insecticides these are
toxic by design they're trying to to you
know kill insects from eating them and
so certainly that's going to make things
a lot worse and
Well, we we
in my book I showed that a lot of these
so carcinogens that you just mentioned
they're they're taken up in mammalian
cells
and they actually cause the mitochondria
to fluoresce. They call bio bio
luminescence. So, you can you know there
those carcinogens are going right to the
mitochondria.
And and damaging the mitochondria which
is then the first step the first step in
the initiation of cancer is to disrupt
oxidative phosphorylation.
And only cells that can up regulate a
fermentation mechanism as the result of
this damage can become cancer cells.
Cells that cannot up regulate
fermentation rarely if ever become
tumorigenic. Cells of cardiomyocytes
they can't switch from ox phos to
fermentation. Neurons in the brain
rarely become tumorigenic. It's the
glial cells not the neurons. Neurons
can't ferment for very long. So, only
cells that have the capacity to replace
respiration with fermentation can become
a cancer cell. Otherwise you can't do
that.
That's very interesting and I think
that's that's a good
illustration of of what the actual
mechanism is going on as well.
Yeah. I mean it becomes very clear. Once
you understand the biology of the
problem understanding
how we how we get it and more
importantly understanding how we manage
it becomes very logical. The problem is
this information is not known by the
majority of oncologists or scientists in
the field.
Absolutely and
I'm just you know that that you know
with my my sort of endeavors into into
nutrition how this affects
disease you know even just the idea that
that
you know diabetes and heart disease are
are you know caused by sort of eating
eating a lot of carbohydrates and sugar
and all these sort of thing. A lot of
people
really don't know that like doctors and
nutritionists as well and they still
sort of on the same you know cholesterol
will kill you sort of idea which I think
has been thoroughly debunked.
Well, you know, it's been debunked but
everybody's popping the statin tablets
obviously they still think cholesterol
has a big big role in cardio. It's
triglycerides. You're
you're absolutely right you know and and
in the cancer wards they still give the
cancer patients you know sugar and coke
and ice cream cake.
And then they say
glucose has nothing to do with cancer.
So, there's there's such a lack of
knowledge that it's profound. It's a
It's chasmic. It's
It's unbelievable the lack of knowledge
on the part of the healthcare industry
as to what what should and should not be
done to keep people healthy.
Yeah, that that's one of the things that
you know, I I sort of was you know, I
was a bit upset there because I see this
every day in the hospital. You know, I
see the food that they they feed them.
It's just It's just sugary carbs. That's
it.
Yeah. And it there's almost no meat.
There's certainly no fat. Uh there was a
bit of dairy, but it's it's always like
chocolate milk as opposed to just normal
milk.
And and the rest of it is just is just
garbage. And I'm I'm going around seeing
our brain tumor patients and who just
underwent uh surgery and and here they
are eating all this this sugary
nonsense. And I just can't help but
think to me like this is this is what
gave you this problem in the first
place. And we And we're just shoveling
it into your face.
Yeah, it drives the It drives the tumor.
And And what we also found um I
published a major paper on this uh with
the standard of care for for brain
cancer.
Um the very treatments that are used,
the um
uh radiation, as well as temozolomide,
um they free up massive amounts of
glucose and glutamine in the tumor
microenvironment,
Mhm. uh making long-term survival very,
very rare.
So, it's the therapies themselves that
In other words, that's bad enough to
have a glioblastoma. Mhm. It's even
worse to use standard of care to treat
it because you've more or less signed
and sealed the death certificate of this
patient um simply by
the the human brain should rarely, if
ever, be irradiated. This is nonsense.
This has to stop. People I published a
clear paper on how the radiation breaks
apart the glutamine glutamate cycle in
the brain freeing up massive amounts of
glutamine. And the And the
uh steroids they give these patients
increases blood sugar. The two fuels
necessary for but causing cancer cells
to grow out of control are made
available in abundant quantities by the
very treatments that we're doing uh to
these patients. Yeah. So, um we have
made no advance in glioblastoma therapy
in almost 100 years.
And my most recent paper shows in 100
years
we have a telescope that now orbits 1
million miles from Earth to look at the
very origins of our solar system.
Um
uh this new telescope, I can't remember
the name of it, but but anyway,
and yet and yet we do that and we've
made no no advance in glioblastoma.
Yeah. So So and many other cancers. Once
you have metastatic lung cancer, a colon
cancer, the the survival is is so much
less
because the treatments we're using
contribute to the demise of these
patients. It's unbelievable. Yeah,
absolutely.
tragedy. That's actually a tragedy.
Yeah. And and and you know, chemo can be
so hard on people. And you know, I don't
I don't know what people are more
concerned with like getting cancer or
getting cancer and realizing that means
they need chemo because you know, I've
had I've had friends and obviously
patients devastated by by these
treatments.
Yeah, I think they fear the treatment as
much as they do the disease. They don't
They think their hair is going to fall
out. They're going to bleed from the
gums. They're going to be sick and tired
all the time.
You know, many people are. Some people
recover really well. Actually, um there
are some reports now that show water
only therapeutic fasting can
significantly reduce some of the toxic
effects of chemotherapy. But my my my
point is why would you want to use
chemotherapy when we know we just have
to pull the plug on the fermentable
fuels with diet and very and drugs that
aren't not are not so toxic, especially
what under therapeutic ketosis. I mean,
there's a clear framework and strategy
for managing cancer without toxicity.
The biggest problem is no business model
to support this, which is the singular
greatest uh
inhibitor of moving this forward. There
is no way yet that people have found out
how to make money
uh on metabolic therapy. That's the
biggest problem. Yeah. Not that It's not
the patient that should be benefited.
It's how to make revenue from this. I
think the entrepreneurial will come and
the entrepreneurial will figure out how
to do this. I'm not that kind of a
person. My job is not How do we keep
cancer patients alive with a higher
quality of life beyond what they were
ever predicted to to have? Yeah. I
suppose a good business model would be
just setting up clinics that that have
this uh treatment regime and actually
get results. And then people will will
go to them. And uh and that might
doing that now, actually. We have some
clinics that are But you know, some of
the drugs that we use like
6-diaxynorleucine
is not available to the public. And And
And it really bothers me because that
was used on children and uh cancer
patients and other uh
indications in the past. Um but yet uh
if you try to get it, the uh the drug
will say it's not for human use, not for
human consumption. Uh and that that's
that should not be because that drug is
very, very powerful. Especially when
used in ketosis. We We did the
experiments. We showed the results. And
And my
Hundreds and hundreds of cancer patients
are emailing me, "How do I get this
drug?" And the answer is write your
senator and congressman.
They They should because it's a
It's a drug um would be repurposed. It
was used on cancer, but it wasn't used
in the right way. If you don't know how
to use the tool, it's not going to give
you the outcome that you would have
expected. They say, "Oh, it's too
toxic." Relative to what? Chemo and
radiation? No, not even close. So, you
have We have a drug available
that can be used right now to solve to
resolve reduce cancer in so many
patients when used with nutritional
therapeutic ketosis. We've already shown
how it works. And it works really well.
And it should be used right now. But
it's not because there's no profit in
this drug. So, if there's no profit, we
can't use it regardless of the patient.
Can you believe this? This is what we
call a moral issue.
Yeah. Is Is there any way to sort of
push through uh you know, I mean getting
it getting it approved
uh by the FDA to get this this going? Or
is there just there's just no money
behind it? Or No, um
you know, it's it's a It's all I think
it's all a revenue generation. I I I'm
sorry to say that. The FDA will approve
drugs
um if there's a proof of concept.
Nothing could be stronger than the proof
of concept of how this drug gone,
6-diaxynorleucine,
works with ketosis. Nothing is as strong
as this. Yet it won't be approved
because there's no revenue to be
generated from this.
Yeah. So, it's a business model. People
have to realize that uh
uh cancer
is a revenue generating disease. Yeah.
Hospitals
reco- uh use drugs and radiation because
they generate so much revenue from the
insurance companies. All right? So, one
all has to go back. So, is it Are we uh
Are we interested in keeping people
alive longer? Yes, only if it can be
associated with revenue generation. If
it's not associated with revenue
generation, I'm sorry, we have to
sacrifice those cancer patients. Yeah.
There it is. Yeah. You know, I I wonder
if um you know, just obviously you know,
I'm in Australia at the moment. So, we
there's a there's a public and private
system here.
But in in the public system, obviously
this is this is coming from the
government. And and it is and there are
massive delays. Some Some it can
actually take 4 and 1/2 years for some
someone to get into our clinic with uh
like radiculopathy, compressed nerve in
their spine that needs surgery. 4 4 and
1/2 years is our current wait list for
that. So, there are a lot of delays and
there are a lot of issues. But we deal
with a lot of of cancer as well and
those get, you know, obviously uh
treated right away because it's an a
life-or-death emergency.
But the you know, the government really
tries hard to not pay for anything that
gets done and they and they put a lot of
roadblocks in their way. And I just
wonder, wouldn't this be something that
would be attractive to them because this
is this is
eminently more
uh cheaper than the actual standard uh
treatments. But I think that
well, you you may may have some ideas,
but I I think maybe it's that a lot of a
lot of hospitals and and systems around
the world that that have a public model
generally, you know, try to emulate the
guidelines set in America in the private
system with the with the insurance so
sort of driving things.
Yeah, you know, you would think so. You
You would think this would be the best
thing for governments to, you know, cut
their medical bills.
Uh no. No, no, no, no, no. There's a
force that's more power
uh that's controlling this. Uh even
though the governments would like to do
this, uh
IRB institutional review boards have
shut down this so many times. Mhm. Um
they want to do a standard of care first
before they do metabolic therapy. Why?
Well, there's something else going on
here.
Um there's And again, it has to do with
the control of the entire medical
system. How what we call standard of
care. Standard of care should have never
been written and granted. But it seems
to have been written and granted. In
other words, you can use metabolic
therapy only after you
demonstrate that uh conventional chemo
and radiation don't work. Mhm. Now, for
glioblastoma, 99% of the time they don't
work. So, you think that So, why do we
have to continue to uh push ineffective
therapies
uh and once we realize they don't work,
then we maybe we want to do metabolic
therapy. No, no, no. You should do
metabolic therapy first. That's the
number one. Do metabolic therapy first
and then you'll be shocked at how you
won't need toxic radiation and chemical
chemicals. And that is not what the
system wants to hear, period. Yeah.
Um
Yeah, well that that
obviously needs to to change somehow. I
don't I don't
Yeah, well who's going to change it?
Yeah, I don't know.
I mean
well, which you know, the bottom line is
you just keep treating patients with
metabolic therapy and let the patients
be the advocates of what's going on. Let
them go out and tell people what they
did. Why are you still alive? How come
you're not dead? You should have been
dead 3 years ago and you're out here,
you know, working in your garden.
Uh and he'll tell you those guys will be
more than happy to tell you what they
did. Yeah. Well, that's the thing um not
even to to the extent that you're
talking about actual, you know,
treatment um
modality with with diet and and drugs.
But I I had a friend of mine who was
diagnosed with a glioblastoma multiforme
about 6 years ago and and I had already
been involved in this this sort of
research and and seeing a lot of of work
uh from yourself and others. And I just
I just said, "Hey, look, there's there's
a lot of
you know, uh evidence here suggests that
that at least being on a ketogenic diet
is going to be very very beneficial and
I I sort of, you know, pitched a
carnivore diet because that's that's uh
you know, my thing, but
she didn't do like a whole carnivore
diet. She did more keto, but she ate a
lot more meat. She cut out the carbs.
She stopped drinking and she's now 6
years still alive. At at 5 years, she
had an MRI and she had no sign of
disease. Unfortunately, it did come back
in her 6th year. So, she's sort of going
undergoing a further debulking. But
5 years and and her 5-year MRI was was
clear. That's um
almost unheard of in with GBM.
Yeah, well see, those kinds of cases
need need to be written up and the pa-
the patient that we wrote up uh Pablo
Kelly who has a a website and talks
about his survival. Uh he chose no
standard of care, just metabolic
therapy. And he was a carnivore on on
the carnivore kind of diet.
Yeah.
Um so so he's out now 8 years and um his
tumor is not gone it's there. He has a
debulking surgery every 3 years. Um uh
and no radiation or chemo. He'll give
you a the full story about what very
kind of a colorful guy from Dev- Devon,
England. Um and he's out there
uh and he's he used the carnivore uh
procedure, but no carbs, you know, he
cut all that stuff out. And he's still
going fine. He's had two children. You
know, he was 26 when he was diagnosed,
lived a horrible uh
lifestyle um you know, as he said,
alcohol and drugs and bad food and all
that kind of stuff. And then of course,
when after his tumor, he became very
pristine in what he was doing and he's
still doing fine. But um yeah, but I
think we're we're seeing now that
there's two things you need that we
think need to happen. Number one, uh
avoiding the standard of care. Mhm. Uh
number two,
uh
uh switching your entire diet and
lifestyle over to zero or very low
carbohydrate. Whether you do that with
carnivore or whether you do it with
plants, you know, you can you can do it
with either or.
Uh and we developed the glucose ketone
index calculator to allow uh people to
know whether they're whether or not
they're in a state of uh nutritional
ketosis by blood markers. You can do
KetoMojo blood glucose ketone meter. So,
the pa- the cancer patient knows and
when Pablo went off his diet a little
bit, he start- the tumor started to grow
again and you could see it on MRI. And
immediately, he threw himself back into
a very low uh GKI index and you could
see the tumor stop stop growing. It was
very clear. So, uh and the diet and and
and the cancer cells can't burn ketones
or fats. They only they only can burn
glucose and glutamine. So, whatever you
and there's no diet that will target
glutamine. Um so, one always says, "Oh,
how am I going to What am I going to eat
to target glutamine?" Glutamine is the
most abundant amino acid in our body.
Now, it's I'm so shocked at how long
people can live with just ketogenic
diets or these kinds of things. But if
we ever married those diets with the
glutamine targeting drug Don, I think we
could eliminate these tumors in the
majority of people very quickly. So,
we're not doing that. We're not doing
the very things we need to do to make
cancer a very manageable disease without
suffering great toxicity. Mhm. Why are
we not doing this? Because nobody knows
about it. They don't know it. And the
ones that are in charge don't want to
believe it. Okay? If you go to most of
the oncology centers, oh, there's no
evidence to support metabolic therapy.
If it were so important, we would all
know about it. Wrong.
You're not No, you wouldn't know about
it. And there's a and and and
and people don't want to You're dealing
with the with a meal ticket for entire
industry here. You You Let's be honest,
right?
Yeah. Absolutely. Yeah. And um so so
with the Don, um
so going to the to the the drug and diet
uh cocktail. So, is this something you
know, obviously, they're not letting us
use this in humans, but we've we've uh
or you've done
uh quite extensive animal models, is
that right?
Yeah, we've we've looked at it in in a
variety of metastatic and invasive brain
cancers and things like this. Yeah, I
mean I mean all of these drugs, I mean
Don was used in humans. It was used in
little kids with leukemia. Okay, so it's
not like it's a drug that's never been
used on humans. Of course, it's been
used. It's in malaria treatments.
There's a lot of ways that that drug has
already been used, but not for cancer.
Mhm.
Okay? So, um and there's other of
course, you don't think the
pharmaceutical industry knows about
glutamine targeting? So, what they do is
they build drugs that that are not
nearly as effective as Don, patent that
drug and then throw that drug out on the
cancer population, never using keto with
it. So, you get some therapeutic
benefit, but you're not going to get the
full therapeutic benefit. The the cancer
can be managed with drug diet cocktails.
People need to know that. We clearly
showed how nutritional ketosis can
facilitate the delivery of these drugs
to two to tumor cells three three times
more. That means you can lower the
doses, reduce the toxicity, and increase
the efficacy of the whole pro- process.
So, we know the framework. We know how
to manage cancer without toxicity. The
problem is it won't be used in the
clinics for a variety of different
reasons. And the people themselves have
to rise up and say, "I want metabolic
therapy." Forget about all this crazy
nuking and poisoning people and doing
this kind of nutty stuff. I mean it's
it's not based on the bi- on what we
understand the biology of the disease to
be.
So, who's going to make the change? The
guys at the top medical schools? No.
Mhm. It's going to be the people
themselves. Who who will benefit most
from metabolic therapy? The cancer
patients will benefit most from
metabolic therapy. They need to
understand this. They need to rally.
They need to do some put pressure on
your government officials and these
kinds of things. Then will it will
happen. It's never going to happen when
you're trying to convince big pharmacy
and big medical schools that metabolic
therapy is the way to go because it's
not going to generate replacement
revenue. Yeah.
So, you have to have something that's
going to give replacement revenue. But
you want In my mind, I want to see how
many people can survive long-term like
your like your friend, like Pablo Kelly,
like many others who should have been
dead a long time ago are living a hell
of a lot longer with a higher quality of
life. What's wrong with that? Yeah. Why
Why is this a Why is this being
resisted? Why is there resistance
against this? Does it makes no sense to
me, right? Yeah. Yeah, especially
something like cancer. I mean like like
if there was ever something to rally
behind, I think I think cancer is it. I
think that, you know, any sort of
anyone you talk to around the world,
like they always have sympathy for
cancer and people that get it. So, I I
would I'd just be I'm just amazed that
that these things aren't um Well, the
other thing you have to keep in mind is
that the term cure
has been a very reactive kind of term.
Um and we never use that term. Uh cure
can- We don't say we a metabolic therapy
can cure cancer. What metabolic therapy
can do is allow the patient to live
longer. It's a management uh strategy.
You can manage the disease. Okay? In
other words, you don't have to die
so quickly. You you you can live a lot
longer. I'm not saying you can cure. How
would you going to know if anybody's
cured? As I said, okay, if you're if you
have cancer at your age, you look very
healthy. Uh suppose you get cancer and
you manage it with metabolic therapy and
you die at 99 from a heart attack. Well,
you obviously were cured from your
cancer because it wasn't it didn't kill
you. So, we don't know
whether anybody is cured using metabolic
therapy. All all we know is that they
seem to live longer than their predicted
in a higher quality of life. What's
wrong with that?
What is wrong with that scenario? Yeah.
And not being burned down by the like
the chemo and radiation as well. Yeah. I
mean let's be honest. If you I don't
forget we have we have millions of
cancer survivors who have survived toxic
radiation and chemo.
Mhm.
But their body pays a significant price
for that. Uh they're suffering from uh
gastrointestinal problems, neuro
psychiatric problems, hormonal
imbalances, um microbiome disturbances.
I mean all kinds of things that make
their life less less enjoyable, less
pleasurable uh
because they were exposed to toxic
poisons and toxic radiation. This is
stone age. This this should not happen
in today's
day and age when we understand the
biology of the disease very clearly and
yet we're doing these crazy things to
these poor people. You know, it doesn't
make any sense to me. Uh
I I had a I had a very good friend of
mine that I that I grew up playing rugby
with and he unfortunately contracted
sarcoma in his sinuses
probably when he was late 30s
and he like 30s early 40s and very fit
guy, very active guy but
you know, and and he and he went on and
kept going he he he struggled along with
this for about 3 years.
Um one of the chemo agents that he used
just completely destroyed his his nerves
and he became almost crippled from this
just from a from basically half a course
of this chemotherapy and he and he
stopped it and he just said even though
the cancer was was responding well to
it, he just said, "Look, I I'm not going
to I don't want to survive cancer to be
a and an invalid. You know, so
I'm not I'm not going to take that one.
No, I I I have
hundreds of hundreds and hundreds of
situations like this because I I I get
thousands of people emailing me and they
always have a story.
And the what I feel so bad about is they
always
uh contact me after they've been
suffered through the standards of care
and their stories are horrific. I mean,
you can't torture human beings
as well as as what what some of the
standard of care does to people. I don't
even think waterboarding would as would
be as bad as as some of the treatments
they give these cancer patients. Yeah.
You know, it's like this is tragic. I
mean, this I I it it it we we can't
laugh about it. It's a it's a it's a
it's a tragedy Yeah. of monumental
proportions and we don't have to do
this.
Um you know, some of the chemotherapies
our colleagues in Turkey use what we
call a metabolically supported
chemotherapy and they use the lowest
doses of chemo together with nutritional
ketosis which has rather really good
good outcomes and they said they would
prefer not to use any chemotherapy but
they're forced to do it by the system.
So, the system
of treatment seems to have permeated all
health care industries in in societies
throughout the world. Um you go to
India, I was shocked at how they love
radiation over there. They radiate
everybody over there for every any kind
of a cancer. I think I figured that they
might cultures I thought their various
cultures would be more open to metabolic
therapy but there seems to be a lock
hold on cancer treatment throughout the
world. Um they have to do this radiation
and chemo and now it's immunotherapies.
You know, the the problem the problem
car-T immunotherapy such a costly and
very complicated. What are they doing?
Why are they doing this? All they have
to do is pull the plug on the glucose
and glutamine while on the nutritional
ketosis. And you don't have to spend
$265,000
to have your cancer managed. Yeah. You
see what I'm saying? And and it comes
right down to this whole concept of what
is cancer? Is it a genetic disease or is
it a mitochondrial metabolic disease?
And you know, once you realize that it's
a mitochondrial metabolic disease, most
of the treatments we're doing to the
cancer patients make no sense. It's not
based on the fundamental underlying what
the disease is.
Yeah.
So, I don't know what I have what we
have to do to get the word out but um
somebody has to know about this.
Otherwise, we're just going to continue
to kill these poor patients year in and
year out. Yeah. Let's be honest. In the
United States alone, I don't know what
it is in Australia. In the United
States, we are
over 1,600 people are dying every single
day from cancer. Over 1,600.
When I was in China, it's 8,100 because
their population is large. As a matter
of fact, in China cancer has replaced
heart disease as the number one killer
of their of their population. Jesus.
Right? So, what the hell is going on
here? And they're always saying, "Oh,
you know, making major breakthroughs." I
said, "Where's the breakthroughs? You
want a breakthrough, you should drop the
the death rate. There's no
breakthroughs. It's it's it's business
as usual. More and more cancer deaths,
no accountability. I tell you, we're
always running around raising money for
cancer patients. You know, let's do the
5K run for breast cancer. Let's do this.
What do they do with all the money that
you get for raising the They give it to
the people who think cancer is a genetic
disease keeping the the system in place.
I mean, it's nuts. We got we got to
start wisening up and people have to
start asking, "Where the hell is the
accountability for the money that I'm
raising?" The only people who get
healthy the ones running and swimming to
raise money for the cancer. Do a bike
ride. You get healthy doing a bike ride.
But that you raise the money and you
then you poison and irradiate the people
that you're raising the money for. I
mean, this doesn't make any sense, does
it? No, no. And that's the thing too,
you know,
it's a good point that you raise. I
mean, cancer rates are
you know, getting worse, you know, like
you know, cancer eclipsing heart disease
in in China as as as the number one
killer.
You know, I I sort I sort of looked at
at some of the gross figures in the US
since and I was looking at you know,
since we sort of overhauled our our diet
after the 1977 USDA declaration that
cholesterol is going to cause heart
disease and you know, we reduced our fat
cholesterol intake by about 30% increase
or reduced red meat by about 33% and
increased fruits and vegetables 30-40%
increased carbs, increased sugar, all
these things. Since then, there's been
roughly an overall tripling in cancer
rates in the in the United States. You
know, that that cannot be genetic. You
know,
anyone who studies population genetics
you know, knows very well that that is
not possible to do that in a in a
limited generations like that. So,
that that means there's something in the
environment that has changed and has
affected this. Well, here's the other
the other statistic that's often used to
say we're making major advances in
cancer.
Um the anti-smoking campaign was started
probably around 1990 1991.
Uh smoking cancer was associated with
smoking. So, if people stopped smoking.
So, you use the 1991 rate of increase
compared to today and you say, "Look at
how many how fewer patients we have
today based on 1991 data." Yeah, because
everybody was smoking and dying in 1990
not everyone, many people were smoking
and dying. So, but but if you look at
the number of dead bodies accumulating
every year, the number of dead bodies
accumulate at the same percentage as the
population growth. So, every year the
number of dead people from cancer goes
up. American Cancer Society has all the
numbers. They all publish it every year.
So, this is a well-documented event that
cancer death numbers of dead people
increase every year. You don't use a
1991 rate to predict how many you're
saying, "Oh, if we continued to smoke in
2022,
we would have had a lot more dead cancer
patients." Of course, you would. But you
stopped smoking. So, the only the only
the major advance was prevention. We
stopped smoking and therefore reduced
lung cancer still the number one killer
but it would have killed a hell of a lot
more if we didn't stop smoking.
But the treatments, you have to look at
what are any new treatments that reduce
cancer deaths and the answer is
zero. So,
It's it's a tragedy no matter how you
look at it. You know,
and yet the poor people in the hospital
suffering immensely, you know, hair
falling out. I said, "Anytime you see a
bald cancer patient, that person was
treated by someone who doesn't
understand the biology of the disease
they're working on. You shouldn't be
bald. You're trying to kill cancer
cells. What the hell why your hair falls
out? Oh, the hair and the cancer cells
share they're both growing. But you
don't want to kill all your gut cells,
your hair cells. That tells me you have
no idea. So, they use these terms
precision medicine.
Well, how in the hell do your hair falls
out with precision medicine? You know,
or other adverse off-target. Oh, if it's
so precise, how come we have all these
off-target effects on the person's body?
I mean, this is such a bunch of crap. I
mean, when are they going to wise up to
understand what's going on here? It just
doesn't make any sense.
Um you know, that that's another thing
too something that that you point out um
is that
in a cancer cell in a cancer like a
tumor
uh
you we we get taught in in medical
school obviously you got these genetic
changes and then this thing just starts
propagating that and it's it's basically
monoclonal
but that's not what we see. We don't see
that in tumors. We see
certain ones that have certain hallmarks
and changes and and increased you know,
mitosis but a lot of these things just
look normal. They just look like normal
tissue and yet they behave as cancer.
Um
that that sort of to your point you
know, is uh
you know, if if they these all have
varying genetics, why are they all
acting the same? You know, that that
definitely looks like a downstream
effect as opposed to a causative effect,
you know? Oh, yeah, absolutely.
Absolutely. The now the other thing that
we're you're you're 100% but every one
of the cells in that in that tumor is
fermenting.
So, they're all fermenting but they all
have different genetic characteristics
but they're all fermenting. So, why are
we so concerned about targeting the
genetic mutations that differ in every
single cell of the body when the when
the tumor cells are all fermenting?
That's that's the power of the somatic
mutation theory. If the somatic mutation
theory says cancer is caused by genetic
mutations, mindlessly we go out and try
to target all these different genetic
mutations. But on the mitochondrial
metabolic theory says that they're all
fermenting.
So, but the the field has not yet
accepted the mitochondrial metabolic
theory as the origin of cancer as
Warburg had originally it threw him
under the bus. When Watson and Crick
first discovered the DNA structure,
everybody ran off like the lemmings over
the cliff chasing the the DNA mutations.
You know, it's like the dog chasing his
tail. The now we've come to realize that
all that genomic millions and billions
of dollars spent on all this genomic
stuff. Now, what we're finding though
which is very now interesting is there
are certain spontaneous mutations that
actually interfere with glucose and
glutamine metabolism. So, we call these
therapeutic mutations. They're actually
God's gift to the cancer patient by a
rare event. Nobody knows. People like
Pablo Kelly has an IDH1 mutation. Okay?
It's called IDH1. IDH1 mutation produces
a metabolite called 2-hydroxyglutarate.
And we have found that two we and others
have found that 2-hydroxyglutarate
interferes with the glutaminolysis
pathway, driving the energy of the
tumor, and also the glycolysis pathway,
building the raw materials so the tumor
can grow. So, the mutation itself is
acting like a drug that can target two
of the pathways driving the cancer. Can
you believe this? And people that have
this mutation are known to live twice as
long as the people who don't have the
mutation. The problem is even the people
with the mutation are given radiation
and chemo,
which which reduces the ability of the
of the very therapeutic mutation to
work. It's unbelievable. Yeah. You know
what I'm If you know what I'm talking
about. Mhm. So, if you don't do standard
of care and are fortunate enough to have
this therapeutic mutation, you can live
a long time. Mhm. And and and this is
the Pablo. Pablo has the therapeutic
mutation, goes on a carnivore ketogenic
diet, and uh every 3 years has had the
bulking surgery because this indolent
tumor just hangs around. But, he's never
used the uh dawn to target and kill off
the rest of it. So, I um
So, we have a strategy, I think. But,
it's really when you understand the the
biology of the disease, you can't help
it be bewildered and overwhelmed by the
by the new information and how easy it
is to get rid of cancer
or manage it. Let's put it that way. I
would say get rid of it, but certainly
you manage it. It becomes a clear uh
strategy. It's just that more and more
people need to know about this. And uh
and uh once they know that they'll be a
stampede for this. Yeah. What what are
some of the uh cancers that you found
that are that are more susceptible and
sensitive to this sort of metabolic
treatment?
Well, the the the the other the the
alternative question is which which
cancers have been
have I found to be resistant Okay. Yeah.
to this cuz they're all almost everyone
is susceptible. Um every lung cancer
that we've looked every breast, colon,
bladder, kidney, they're
they're all they're all very very prone.
They all have to ferment. So, um you
know, and blood can't all the blood
cancers are all driven by glutamine.
They're in the blood, you know, so So,
you're you're you're talking about all
the major cancers.
You know, here's the situation.
There are reports in the scientific
literature showing some mouse
uh
a genetically engineered mouse that has
a genetically engineered lung cancer
that doesn't respond to metabolic
therapy.
Now, the problem is is we don't know any
human being walking around the planet
that has been genetically engineered the
same way as this mouse has been
genetically engineered, nor does that
does that person have a genetically
engineered lung tumor. Yeah. So, until
we can find that person and ask that
individual why they're not responding to
metabolic therapy, I don't know.
But, you know, all of our all of our uh
mouse models that we found all have
naturally arising cancers. In other
words, the cancer arose naturally in the
natural host.
This is the the best model that you can
use because because it's the same kind
of cancer that would be found in dogs.
Um if a dog cancer arising naturally in
the dog host, a human cancer arising
naturally in the human host, those are
the kinds of cancers that respond to
metabolic therapy. Some of these
genetically engineered things are not
responsive in some ways for reasons I
have no no clue. I I don't know why a
mouse that's been so genetically
engineered with both the the host and
the cancer doesn't respond to metabolic
therapy. But, I think I'll leave that
for the next uh in the next uh 10,000
years. Let somebody figure that one out.
Yeah. But, who cares about that? Who
gives a rat's ass about a mouse that's
been genetically engineered that doesn't
respond to metabolic therapy, Right?
Yeah. Let's let's let's focus our
attention like dogs, for example. They
respond remarkably well. Dogs with can
Cancer kills more dogs. It's like the
number one killer of domestic dogs. The
wolf never has rarely it's very I don't
think there's been a a cancer in a very
rare in in a wolf um cuz they're eating
natural they're eating their natural
diet in the wild. You know, they're
they're not
pounding down big burgers or or
jelly-filled donuts and this kind of
thing. Uh and then if you go to the zoo
uh and ask the zookeeper, "Why are you
feeding your chimpanzees, you know, uh
their natural Why don't you giving them
their natural diet? You know, why don't
you let them eat jelly-filled donuts and
pizza and drink Coca-Cola?" And what the
zookeeper told me down here at the
Franklin Park Zoo in Boston, "Oh, that
would be animal cruelty animal abuse."
Mhm. And I'm saying, "What the hell,
man? We're 98% similar to the
chimpanzee. Make it appropriate, right?"
Yeah. Let's take chimps and put them on
American diet from the time they're
they're weaned. Weaning take
chimpanzees. Let's take 100 chimps from
the time they're weaning and give them
only what we eat, Yeah. right? Not their
natural diet. What do you think's going
to happen? Cancer, dementia, type 2
diabetes, obesity, all the same
that we have would be seen. But, you
can't do that because it's animal abuse.
Yeah. Yeah. Well, and that's it. You
know, they and they have they have the
signs that you know, do not feed the
animals. This isn't their natural food.
They get very sick. And then we put that
same nonsense into our mouths and then
and and and don't think that anything
bad's going to happen. You know.
No, we get very sick. Yeah. Yeah. And
the food industry and the pharmaceutical
industries are both linked. I had one of
my students go and look at the
investigation between the two
organizations. Like the big the big food
industries producing all these foods
that are poorly nutritionist
and full of high
highly processed carbs make you sick.
And on the other end of the of the
spectrum, the pharmaceutical companies
will give you drugs and therapies to try
to
make you
healthy. Yeah. Yeah.
What an industry, right? It's an
unbelievable. You It's the drive It
drives the economy. So, I guess we have
to be happy because we're all, you know,
uh
many of us are doing well based on the
the revenue generation from these two
industries overlap with each other. Um
but, you know, I think that prevention
is one thing. Um people who know about
this certainly can Even Otto Warburg
said you can't get cancer if your if
your mitochondria remain healthy. Mhm.
So, uh and that's true. You can't get
cancer if your mitochondria remain
healthy. That's prevention. But, uh we
live in a society where it's hard not to
eat,
you know, I Okay, you I saw you cooking
the giant tomahawk ribeye, okay? Well, I
I think that's wonderful and I would eat
it. But, also with a big baked potato
and a big loaf of bread with butter
slathered all over it, right?
Yeah. Yeah.
And a big pile of unhealthy vegetables.
Yeah.
I mean, everybody would go down that
path. But, eating the tomahawk ribeye by
itself, well, I don't know about that.
But, I I certainly would do something
like that. Yeah. Yeah. That's
Um
that's funny. Um I was going to say,
too, one of the um
one of the things I thought, you know,
exactly as you say, that uh you know, we
don't see cancers in in in wild animals.
And we don't and we don't see them in
the zoo. You
know, everyone says that, well, you
know, uh to get cancer. But, that you
know, that never explains animals in the
zoo. Or they're or they're active and
they're running around. But, an animal
in the zoo is sitting in a pen its whole
life. And they live, you know, out there
at their natural life. They don't get
these cancers. And the you know, the
cancer rates in dogs and cats and
domestic animal domestic pets, these
have all increased uh dramatically, you
know, since the
uh you know, inception of of uh packaged
dog and cat food.
Yeah. Absolutely. Absolutely. Yeah. And
the zoo keep because the zoos maintain a
very nutritious diet. They have They
have a staff of veterinarians that
monitor the the the diet. They're so
carefully monitored. This These zoo
These zoo primates, the primates, the
the gorillas and the chimps, uh are very
uh
monitored very very carefully all the
time. Uh nutritional balances, you know,
uh that's why they said if we gave them
a big jelly-filled donuts and pizza, uh
they would they would hammer it. There
There is uh a family of chimps that live
with a humans. They're on the web.
They're It's a chimp a group of chimps
that live with humans. You should see
these chimps go wild when they get the
jelly sandwiches. Oh, they're banging on
the table. They're
They're getting all excited to eat jelly
sandwiches.
Yeah, that's awful.
Yeah. So,
Look at it's a It's a You can go on the
web. There's a family of chimp There's a
bunch of chimps that live with a human
family. Okay.
like to talk about what they're the
chimps are pounding down all this stuff,
loving it, banging on the table, you
know. Yeah. Yeah. Captain Crunch is
going after it. Oh. I mean, uh you know,
I mean, who wouldn't? I I
You can drop off a you a box of donuts
into the into the pen with the chimps
down there. They'd be all over the
donuts. You know, um
and the other guys that weren't getting
the donuts would be all upset.
Yeah.
That's so
Yeah. It's it's humorous. It just shows
you we we as a species have used the
technology. The stuff the sweetness in
our evolutionary past was only rare,
seasonal.
But, our technology has now made it
permanent. So, we can get this sweet
stuff all the time. Yeah. And we like
it. I mean, uh we evolved to like
sweets. So, it's everything has been
carefully developed to tweak all of our
taste buds to make us want to eat more
of this. Even though we put ourselves at
risk for cancer, dementia, heart
disease, diabetes, all this kind of
stuff. Yeah. We're willing We're willing
to still eat the foods that are putting
us in that situation because they taste
so good. Yeah.
You know. Yeah, and to your and to your
previous point about you know, the sort
of unholy alliance between food and farm
and pharmacy. Um
you Dr. Robert Lustig of of UCSF, he
you know, mentioned one of his one of
his books that the if I can remember the
numbers correctly, the sugar industry
makes about 1.3 trillion dollars a year,
you know, gross figures and the
um
like what we spend just treating the
metabolic issues that are derived from
sugar consumption is about 2.4 trillion
dollars. So, you know, this is a massive
massive amount. I mean that that I mean
that's the entire federal budget, you
know, just on eating and and supporting
uh sugar addiction.
Yeah, of course. But if a politician
came out
uh and said listen uh our health our
health uh industry budget is crippling
our nation. It's actually causing a uh a
a crisis, right? Putting us at at risk.
So, we're all going to go back and do
Paleolithic eating.
Okay? We're going to eat Tomahawk rib
eyes.
Uh we're going to cut down on our
carcinogenic vegetables. How long you
think that guy's going to remain in
office, right?
Yeah.
They'll vote his ass out right away. The
people don't you know, but you know,
when when you when when you have the the
cancer, you then you all of a sudden oh,
your whole world begins to change, you
know. How come I wasn't told about this
and all this? Well, we're telling you
now. Do you want to make the choice or
not, you know, it's just Yeah. So,
with with glioblastoma um what are you
finding um
you know, what in in in in your animal
models, what what are you finding to be
the results when you put them on this
uh you know, the dawn and the
restrictive
dietary ketosis? How much of a a benefit
are you seeing in in those? Uh Oh, yeah,
we're getting three, four times longer
survival. Wow.
Um and then we have metastatic cancer.
One of the things we've done
um um because we take these glioblastoma
cells and and we identified the
metastatic cancer as being a a type of
dysplastic macrophage. And in the GBM,
if you look at glioblastoma, many of the
so-called mesenchymal cells, the cells
that have this mesenchymal phenotype,
are the most highly invasive because the
GBM is a Well, you could call it
multiform. They don't call it multiform
anymore. They They just call it GBM.
glioblastoma. But they did call it
multiform because of all the different
kinds of cells that you would see in
there. The mesenchymal kind of cell uh
is the most invasive. And when we took
those cells out of the the brain of the
mouse and put them in the flank, they
metastasized. They spread all over the
body. And then we found out that all
metastatic cancers have macrophage
characteristics. So, we know the we know
the nature of the metastatic cell. It's
a type of a macrophage. Loves glutamine
and glucose. So, uh when we put them in
the flank uh they they spread all over
the body and we use bioluminescence
imaging. We can image the tumor cells
and see how much they've spread through
the through the body. Then we we we call
these
a term that, you know, we call them
terminal mice. They're they're they're
going to die in a couple of days. You
can see the heavy breathing. You can see
their immobility. Then we hit them with
our diet drug cocktail. And within three
or four days, these guys are back
walking around like they they like they
never had anything. But they still have
cancer, but it's been managed. Then you
ask okay, uh we took these guys from
from death's doorstep.
Uh normally they would be dead by 30
days if we did nothing or just continue
to feed them the high carbohydrate
standard lab chow.
But then we got them down to live uh
uh over over four and a half months. Uh
five times longer
than they normally would have. We
haven't published this yet, but we plan
to publish it once we have the all of
the conditions of the drug diet
cocktails
uh defined. We're seeing it for
pediatric cancer in the mice. Um uh
because we're doing the same thing to
these little kids that we do to the
adults. You know, we hit them with high
dose chemo. We hit them with high
radiation. We have We do the same toxic
things to the little kids Yeah.
as we do to adults. And and we can take
these pediatric models that we've
developed here at Boston College and we
can keep these mice alive so much longer
and in such a higher quality of life. Uh
we know we can get the same results in
the in the pediatric clinic as we see
with these natural uh pediatric brain
tumors in in the mice. We know we can
keep people alive with advanced
metastatic cancer if we do drug diet
cocktails at the right time. Don't
interfere with this. Don't forget none
of our mice uh we do radiation. We never
do radiation on any of our mice. So, the
results that we get uh they say, "Oh,
you just get all those great results in
the mice. You won't see that in the
human." Well, maybe because we don't
irradiate the mice.
So, um if we irradiate the mice, maybe
we will see what we get in the human. I
I I don't know um because we're not We
don't plan to do that. You know, and I
don't plan to irradiate. Why am I
irradiating? Now, I'm not saying
radiation is bad for everything because
I think if you have a tumor in a
particular location, it's well defined,
it's not it's not metastatic, radiation
could potentially cure that kind of a
tumor. So, we don't want to throw all
these things under the bus. But we did
temozolomide with metabolic therapy
and we showed that it was no better than
temozolomide is the primary uh chemo for
brain cancer. And and uh we showed that
it was no better than metabolic therapy
uh used with hyperbaric oxygen. So, and
the mice never got sick with our
metabolic therapy. They got sick with
the temozolomide. So, we tried
temozolomide with metabolic therapy. We
put them We put them all together. And
yeah, they did good, but they didn't do
any better than metabolic therapy by
itself without the sickness. So, I'm
saying, "Why are we doing all this
stuff? Why why are we doing what we're
doing?" Because temozolomide generates
huge revenue for the hospital.
Yeah.
So, uh we're not interested in the
revenue generation here. We're
interested in how long we can keep
animals alive with metastatic advanced
stage four cancers. Yeah.
And uh that there's a different We have
a different uh outcome, different
different perspective on looking at this
whole thing. Yeah, definitely.
But yeah, so we have we have uh achieved
levels of success that are beyond
anything we would have ever expected uh
without toxicity. And that's diet drug
cocktails that will will hammer and we
published a big paper on this called the
press pulse therapeutic strategy with
some of my clinician colleagues. And
it's it outlines the framework for how
we would treat human cancers with a
press pulse therapeutic strategy. The
diet is the press and then we use
strategic drugs with the diet to pulse
them. Not chronically use them, but
pulse them. And that degrades slowly
degrades the tumor while enhancing the
health and vitality of the normal cells.
And we think that many cancer patients
come into the clinic, they not only have
cancer, they often have diabetes, they
often have some other uh comorbidities
associated with the fact that they have
cancer. In our metabolic press pulse
strategies, we not only manage the
cancer, reducing it significantly, but
we also get rid of the diabetes, we get
rid of the hypertension, we get rid of
the other uh comorbidities that these
patients also have had. Clearly linking
all of these chronic diseases to a
common underlying uh provocative
situation, which is nutritional
imbalance. And uh and and and diets that
provoke and treatments that provoke the
growth of these tumors and persist on
these kinds of conditions. So, clearly,
you know, it's it it it it Once you
understand the biology of this of the
problem, the solutions become much much
more clear and logical. Yeah.
Uh I was going to say to you about you
know, the radiation. Obviously, we do
use this in the pediatric populations.
Uh it can be it can be absolutely
devastating to those kids. I think that
if I were in a position, you know, even
even not knowing, you know, the things
that we're talking about now, I have I
have thought about this.
Uh I don't think I would ever let my
child get uh you know,
uh radiation for for a tumor.
You might You might
You might not have a choice. Yeah.
You might not have a choice. Because if
that child is beyond is lower than 16
years of age or 18 Mhm. that system
determines what you should do to that
child. Oh, really? Right? The system
determines. The parents are taken out of
the equation. Unless Remember they had
the woman went to Mexico to save her the
life of her child? They they the the the
system controls what you do to that
child. So, even if you said the standard
of care involves radiation and chemo for
that child, it's very hard to break the
system. They'll have you arrested as
as parental neglect.
Yeah.
That's how That's what I'm talking
about. The system is very powerful.
Yeah, that's a That's definitely too
much. I've you know, I've seen kids
uh who have grown up after getting uh
radiation like this.
Uh they it it completely stunts their
mental development. And and so, you
know, where wherever they were, it
probably damaged them from that point.
Say they're three, they probably damaged
them from three and then they never
develop past that. And so, you have this
person in this 30-year-old body with,
you know, the mind of a of a 5-year-old
uh or less. And it's it's absolutely
tragic to see that. I just I I
Well, it's that and the it's more tragic
it doesn't have to happen. Yeah,
exactly.
have to happen. That's the tragedy.
Yeah. That's the tragedy. That child
could have been rescued. Uh I'm not
saying that child could have been cured,
but if the child lives to be the same
age, they they would be cognitively
intact, not not cognitively challenged.
Yeah, and we you know, we we talk about
you know, quality of life and and we do
give people the choice, you know, do you
Is this something that you want to do,
you know, given the fact that this This
going to be a pretty rough road? Do you
want to just live out your, you know,
months or or whatever
at a better standard of living or, you
know, you know, go for the go for the
gold? Uh you know, I I think that
especially when you're talking about
about a child who could potentially have
such a devastating
damage to their brain and their
development. I For me, I I would never
want that personally and I I don't think
I would ever want that that for my
child, either.
No, and but and no one does, but this is
the way this is the way it is.
And um
you often see the child uh if you look
at their they they're given such high
dose steroids. Yeah. They get the big
moon face. Um and you know, the steroids
are driving blood sugars to extremely
high levels. And and then once you see
that phenotype, the big moon face,
whether it's in a child or an adult with
a glioblastoma, you know they're
finished.
You know, that's that that you know that
the therapy itself is killing those
people. And and and and that's the
tragedy. And and I what I just said to
you in that statement that I just made
is not known to the majority of the
cancer of of practitioners in the field.
They are under the impression that this
is helping their patient. This is the
gap in knowledge that needs to be
closed. We cannot continue to do this
toxic therapy on these poor people,
whether it's a child or an adult. It
speaks to the lack of knowledge on the
part of the field treating a disease,
okay? It has to change. It has to
change. Otherwise, we have to continue
to see this these tragedies one after
another. Not only in America, throughout
the world. You're in Australia, they're
doing the same thing down there as we do
here. In England, Germany, Japan,
they're all doing the same thing.
It's a tra- it's a it's a worldwide
tragedy. And it will only change once
comes to realize that cancer is a
mitochondrial metabolic disease with
we could we could make an a dent in this
disease so quick if people knew what I
what I just said. You know, it's the
problem is either they they don't want
to know about it, they don't want to
hear about it, they don't want to talk
about it for various reasons.
Yeah.
Um
on that on that note, uh what are you
mentioned there was some there are some
uh
clinics and and centers that are using
this
as a model. Where where are these guys
at and and how are they getting away
with it? Well, well, they're I I think
they're small clinics, um
you know, that have um
uh
you know, patients have to be all they
have to be offered an alternative. You
know, right now, if you go to the main
hospitals like Dana-Farber, MD Anderson,
you know, Sloan Kettering and Moffitt
Cancer Center and wherever where else
wherever else they have these major
cancer centers, you're not offered
they're not offering metabolic therapy.
Um offer metabolic therapy, see what the
patient is. And the problem is, of
course, if you're going to be
Dana-Farber, MD Anderson, uh you want to
do metabolic, there's no one there to
really that knows what to do. Um so, how
do you you have to have a a staff of
professionals that know what to do and
how to do it?
Okay? Without that that knowledge base,
and the young people going through
medical schools in the oncology area,
they're not trained to do metabolic
therapy. Mhm. You know, um so, where is
the training coming from? Uh I work with
uh people. We have written a protocol to
treat cancer patients based on metabolic
therapy uh with uh Miriam Kalamian, uh
uh a world-renowned expert on keto for
cancer and diet and for this. She's
helped a lot of cancer patients. We we
we write a treatment protocol. Can it be
used? It will not be used in the major
hospitals, of course, because you're
you're doing it as an alternative to
radiation and chemo and immunotherapies
and these other kinds of things. But it
can be done in smaller clinics. In
smaller clinics that are not so yolked
by the system uh to do what they have to
do. And the goal is to keep people alive
and have the people themselves tell
everyone that this is what I did. Guy
Tenenbaum is on the web overcome his
stage four prostate cancer using
metabolic approaches. So, you're getting
more and more vocal advocates that are
telling others that listen, do
metabolic. Now, is it easy? Don't I
don't want to let people think that oh,
doing metabolic therapy is a cakewalk
because a lot of the success rides on
your shoulders. How compliant are you to
not eat carbohydrates?
Which can be very hard for a lot of
people, you know.
It was
that's one of the things, you know, I
see in in clinic
here in neurosurgery.
You know, we get we get these people
with the GBMs and it's this devastating
diagnosis, obviously.
I think I think every single patient
that I've ever
done a consultation with, and we we do
this once a week, we have everyone come
in with all the new diagnoses, and I I
don't think there's a single person that
hasn't asked me, okay, what can I do?
How can I do this? What what can I do?
They really want to be a part of this.
They they don't want to feel
helpless like this is just out of their
control. And I I remember getting really
upset uh at another at another physician
who um
you know, basically said you know, they
they asked him sort of like, you know,
what should I what should I stop
drinking alcohol or you know, what
should I do? And they're like,
you know what? You probably don't have
that long anyway, so just do whatever
you want.
And and I was I was furious at that.
Yeah. The person looked so defeated. I
was like, yeah, I guess I guess it just
doesn't matter. I was like, of course it
matters. It absolutely matters. You have
control. You have you you have a say in
this. You have a dog in this fight. You
are able to affect your own your own
course of your life. And uh and and and
just seeing their eyes like literally
hope just rising in their eyes. And I I
I try to I try to mitigate that because,
you know, this isn't this isn't good any
way you cut it, but you know, I I I tell
them I tell them about your work. I
point them in in the direction of your
uh
material and and studies. And I just
say, hey, look, I'm not telling you that
this is going to cure anything, it's not
going to stop anything, but there's a
lot of evidence that says like if you do
this, this will help. And like here,
just you know, go to the source here,
see what you think.
You're you're 100% correct about that.
And I I can't emphasize that more that
than what you just said. Because I see
people once they understand about the
glucose ketone index that they are
measuring their own blood every day, not
every day, but every other day or
whatever, using a little meter, and
they're collecting the numbers, and they
know what direction those numbers have
to go in for that therapy to be
effective. They they get really
motivated. They now know that they are
able to do something. They are in
control of their own destiny. And they
work very very hard, and they become
extremely motivated. This is what Pablo
did. So, when he knew what numbers he
had to achieve in order to put pressure
on the growth of that tumor, he knew he
was in control. And you give the patient
now power. They have the power, and they
get motivated to know what they need to
do. You're absolutely right. Nobody
should ever be told there's nothing more
we can do. These people can do
especially at the beginning, especially
at the beginning of their disease. And
then they then they have to know that
it's a it's a long haul.
It doesn't have like, oh, I can do it,
you know, I'm I'm really good at this
for a month. No, no. You you're going to
have to you're going to have to bite the
bullet on this. So, so uh and power
through until until you have achieved
control of that of that growth. The
growth does not control you, control the
growth. Yeah. And the patient can do
that with the proper motivation, with
the proper training. So, I can't
emphasize more of what you just said.
You got to let these patients know that
they're part of the fight. Yeah. And
that and they can control this. And and
you'd be surprised how how much longer
these people live in a higher quality of
life. And when they
I don't want to say they all pass, but I
I've had I've had
people tell me or their loved ones told
me that uh
this guy fought the fight, he was
felt so good about himself.
And even though he may not have made it
all the way, he lived two, three times
longer than he was supposed to live at a
much higher quality of life and never
had to suffer suffer and die in in these
pain painful situations. And then there
was many people who are still fighting
the fight and should have died a long
time ago, and they're still they're
still on. And I tell if I had the drugs
that work with the diet, uh we would
have we would be able to settle this in
a much more
uh
defined period of time.
So, um yeah, there's a lot of hope for
the future. The I I would say the future
of cancer is bright.
Not bleak.
You know, uh it's a whole new strategy
and and and I think that that the future
if cancer we can we can keep this
disease managed and and people are going
to emerge in a healthier state and feel
much better about themselves.
Um
that's my that's my view. I base it on
my understanding of the biology of the
disease and 30 years of research in the
field looking at this problem. So, uh
and publishing all these papers. And uh
this is the way I see it. So, I I I
think I think I think the future is is
far brighter than it should be
uh than people make it out to be. Yeah,
good. Yeah, and I I yeah, I agree with
you. And just and just
trying to get this out there and and let
people know that they actually have a
say in this and then they can actually
affect the course of this disease.
They're not just out of control and just
at the whims of the chemo and radiation,
but they actually have have something to
say in this as well. Um
I was going to say, what when did you
get uh sort of focus in this this line
of research? I know that when you were
doing when you were at Yale, you were
doing research on to
uh seizures and uh preventing seizures
with with ketosis, which is you know,
which is something that you I've looked
into and it's like we've been using this
for nearly 90 years to treat refractory
seizures and it's something that almost
no neurologist that I know of use and I
I've seen a lot of people with epilepsy.
I spoke to them. I've always asked them,
you know, have they ever spoken to you
about uh your diet? Not a single one has
has said yes. Which which is blows my
mind because it's such an
such a simple thing. It may not be easy
to implement, but it is straightforward
and it has a lot of evidence behind it.
Yeah, well, don't forget uh uh
uh
when I was doing Yale, at that time Yale
was one of the leaders in the field of
epilepsy research. Gilbert Glaser was
the chair of the department.
Uh had written many many distinguished
books and papers on on epilepsy. And
they told me uh cuz I was working on
ganglioside biochemistry at the time,
too. Um looking at different uh
disorders of lipid metabolism. But they
said if you want to stay at Yale, you
better work on something to do with
epilepsy.
So, we were mapping genes, mapped genes
for epileptic uh seizures. And oh,
everybody was excited map genes. And
because the idea was if you map the
gene, you could figure out the product
and you could make a treatment for that
product. The problem is and then I
realized that well, I didn't always they
always use the same kind of chemicals
and things all the time. Why don't we
try keto I I didn't do ketogenic diet
until I came to Boston. I tried to get a
grant at Yale.
Uh but they said oh, nobody's interested
in ketogenic diets for epilepsy and we
have all these drugs. But then Jim
Abrams of of uh the movie industry Mhm.
produces the film First Do No Harm with
Meryl Streep. Mhm. And his son Charlie
had epilepsy and he started the Charlie
Foundation and he brought together a lot
of people in the epilepsy field to look
at uh why we not using ketogenic diets
to manage epilepsy when it was known
since 1921 by Wilder at Mayo Clinic. Why
are we not doing this?
So, uh one of my students went out to
the meeting cuz we were still doing
looking at epilepsy and come back and
said hey, listen, let's we should put
our mice on ketogenic diets. And sure
enough, we mapped all these genes. But
the thing of it is the diet blocked the
seizures.
It was a was really quite an interesting
thing. Yeah. And then calorie
restriction
um
was even more powerful along with
ketogenic diets and and then uh we were
working on the gangliosides for brain
cancer. We were doing a lot of work on
brain cancer. Mhm. And then we said uh
why don't we see if the diet works on
brain cancer?
And then I said well, my god, you know,
this is unbelievable. What's going on
here? Then we discovered Otto Warburg
had said this many many years ago. Yeah.
You know, and we know that the the
tumors can't burn ketones for energy
because their mitochondria defective.
They need glucose. So, the glucose is
low, ketones are elevated. Wow, makes
perfect sense. Otto Warburg was right.
So, then send us off into a into a a
better understanding of how we manage
manage cancer metabolically coming from
our understanding of how ketogenic diets
work on epileptic seizures. And
actually, we still don't know the
mechanism by which ketogenic diets block
epilepsy cuz it's a very complicated
brain wiring uh scenario that has to be
has to be looked into. But it became
crystal clear as how this diet could
stop cancer growth or restrict cancer
growth. And the fact is that we have
tens of thousands of little kids around
the world using ketogenic diets every
day to manage their seizures.
Yet when you talk about it in cancer,
they talk oh, it could hurt the kid, it
could hurt the patient, it could hurt
this. Oh, the toxic effects of ketogenic
diet. Are you kidding me?
Yeah. I mean, we have thousands of
little kids doing ketogenic diets for
epilepsy and and nobody's talking about
that, but when you take a a a little kid
with cancer, oh no, it's it's terribly
toxic. It's nutritionally impact. What
are you nuts? Yeah. Compare it to
radiation and chemo. You're telling me
the ketogenic diet is more harmful than
radiation and chemo? Yeah. I mean, give
me a break. Yeah. So, um I mean, this is
the the absurdity of dealing. So, yeah,
we we we have we came to this state
where we are through a long circuitous
path not knowing where any of this would
have ever ever taken us. But we were
aware enough of the underlying
mechanisms of action to know what we
were doing, why we were doing it and how
it works. Now, the big challenge is
getting the word out to people and
seeing more and more success stories of
using this. Now, Jethro, you at
Cedar-Sinai in Los Angeles has a big
trial on ketogenic diet for
glioblastoma.
And he's getting spectacular results,
more than he would have ever imagined.
Mhm. and that's still with upfront
standard of care. And he knew he and I
know. I said if you took away that
radiation and chemo your results would
probably be even more spectacular. Yeah.
You know, so it's just it takes the time
for the system to come to adjust and
realize what's happening here. Yeah.
There there there is a clear mechanism
of action. It's a very clear mechanism
of action. Yeah. So, uh it just takes
time. That's that's all, but I I feel
that this time is being uh wasted and
we're sacrificing all these poor kids
and adults in cancer.
And it's just that's the tragedy that
this doesn't have to happen and yet it's
happening.
Yeah.
Um that sort of uh
just you know, raise the question. So,
these damaged mitochondria obviously
this is this is precipitating this this
issue. Can that ever reverse or I mean,
is it obviously there can always be a
point of no return, but does that ever
come back? Um and
Yeah, well, that was one of the big that
was one of the big things that I did
when I when I uh bundled together all
the nuclear mitochondrial transfer
experiments that were done in animal
animal systems over decades. All
independent of each other done by some
of the best developmental biologists uh
in the field. And I spoke to many some
of these individuals. So, if you take if
you take the nucleus of the tumor cell
that has all the mutations that are
supposedly drivers and you put that drop
that nucleus into a new cytoplasm, you
get uh growth regulation. Not growth
dysregulation. And sometimes you can
form a whole frog or a mouse uh from the
the the the nucleus of a tumor cell. So,
you replace essentially the bad
mitochondria. In other words, you put
that nucleus into a cytoplasm with fresh
mitochondria. And that those new
mitochondria able to re-regulate the
growth and development despite the
continued presence of the so-called
driver gene mutations that were supposed
to I mean, this is this is the hardest
evidence you can say against this gene
theory. So, and if you do the reverse,
if you take the normal nucleus and drop
it into a cytoplasm that has cancerous
mitochondria mitochondria the the the
the cell will either die or form
dysregulated uh cancer cells. So, this
was clear evidence. Getting back to your
question. Um can we revert uh
cancer by putting new mitochondria
therapy actually. Um and you know, I
think that's going to come in the
future. I I think it's so it's so uh new
that eventually we will be able to use
maybe replace. But you know, I I don't
want to at this point say let's see if
we can uh uh restore the growth
regulation of a of a cancer cell by
putting new mitochondria. I think it's
better at this point to kill them off.
Uh get rid of them. Uh put them in a in
a in a lock a growth lock hold uh rather
than trying to re-educate them. In the
event you get recidivism and I I and we
don't want that. Yeah.
So, I mean, everything is but I think
mitochondrial therapy for the future is
going to be really exciting and
interesting. But I don't think we're
there yet. So, let's let's let's work
with what we can do and make a real big
difference and then we'll move forward
uh with these newer newer kinds of
things for the future. Um but right now,
let's just put a lock hold on these
cancer cells and keep people alive in a
healthier state. Yeah. means eating
Tomahawk ribeyes. I think I think you'll
find
Which is a number of people that would
buy on to that. Yeah.
Um and and you know, that's me just you
know, that that experiment that you
spoke of, you know, you know, taking the
nucleus and and putting into new
cytoplasm and and the mitochondria and
showing that you you have all these
genetic changes and it doesn't behave as
cancer and you take the mitochondria and
put them in and it does behave as
cancer. I mean, that's QED as far as I'm
concerned. Yeah. Yeah, but it's still
So, the the response by the oncology
field is they don't want to talk about
it. They don't want to look at it. And
they don't
and they don't want to hear about it.
Yeah. So, you put that that's because
it's so devastating
to an entire industry that uh once once
that becomes more widely recognized
Yeah. and it's been repeated over and
over in all different kinds of models.
Um so, what's the hold up? Yeah. What is
the hold up here?
Yeah.
Somebody has to scratch their head and
say what why why are we continued to
persist with therapies that put patients
at risk for all kinds of health diseases
when we when we have a solution or a or
a a better a better approach to
management than we currently have? Yeah.
What is the hold up here?
Um
so, so if if someone were to you know,
you have cancer now and and
you know, what would what would be the
you know, the best I obviously you know,
ketogenic or or you you mean carnivore,
but you know, eliminating that out. What
ratio are they looking for um
uh to get and like what what is sort of
the best way for people to manage this
at home because if they don't have
access to one of these uh clinics that
are are um popping out?
Well, that's the you you you as I said
in the letters that I sent to people,
you know, I'm not a physician. I can't
tell you what to do and what not to do.
All I can do is provide you with
information, knowledge from published
papers and and observations. And I let
the physicians in the clinics
treat the patients. You know, we know
what we need to do.
As I said, the first now a lot of people
cannot do water only fasting because
it's too too much of a shock. The brain
is addicted to glucose. And it's it's
just as difficult to get off glucose as
it is get off heroin, alcohol, and
nicotine. And these kinds of things. But
the body the body can adjust to the
change.
So you will have withdrawal symptoms.
But what we realized what we realized is
that if the patient were to gradually
transition to a zero carbohydrate diet
for several weeks even that can be
difficult for some patients for some
individuals. But it's not as much of a
jump to do a water only I tried it, man.
It go cold turkey on on on carbs is
really really tough. I mean I mean I
mean you start to you can smell stuff
cooking like blocks away. You know, it's
it's unbelievable. You know, so but it's
too it's too hard. And and so what we've
learned is that patients can transition
to water only fasting after a couple of
weeks on on on on zero carb diets.
And you know, with meat
no carbs at all. Yeah, vegetables we're
not we're not as opposed as you might
be. But if we we can get an organic if
we can get an
grow the vegetables in your backyard
using manure and these kinds of things.
But but but I tell you then you
transition to water only fasting for a
few days bring those blood sugars down,
bring the ketones up, get into the new
diet state, then you hit them with the
drugs.
The the drug like Don and and some of
the other drugs and benzos all these
parasite medications, man, they're
powerful. Yeah, damn. So
yeah, you hit with a albendazole thing
albendazole
they they they target some of the
metabolic pathways that the cancer cells
need. So so all this stuff is cheap. Now
here's the interesting thing.
Albendazole was really cheap. It's a
parasite medication, right? For worms
some sort of worms. And
you can get the the pills over in India
for for 50 cents a tablet. But now when
we realized in the United States they
work on cancer it's $300 a tablet. Yeah,
you tell me what you tell me what's what
the driving this industry. It's not
it's a revenue generation. So we call
that Scara you know the guy Martin Scara
you think the most hated man in America
who made the EpiPens like $800 when they
used to be remember that guy? Yeah. He
took advantage of the system because he
could. Everybody hated the guy. But you
know, the pharmaceutical industry does
the same thing. They just don't
broadcast. It's called Scara you Scara
the price of all these things because
you know, you can make a buck on it.
It's terrible, right? It's
It's really despicable behavior.
Yeah,
but that's the way that's the business
of America, right? The business is what
Calvin Coolidge said, "The business of
America is business."
So so so but you know, these are the
drugs you can get drugs on the cheap as
long as you know how to use them. You
you put them together with diet drug
combinations and you can get a really
good powerful
management of cancer. But you have to
have knowledgeable people. They have to
know doses, timing, and scheduling. And
this is all quite quite doable. The
framework was already there. We
published the framework.
So people willing to know how to do
this, they're willing to take it. And so
cancer patients should be
seen. They can sure they can do a lot of
it themselves as long as they're
educated and told what to do and how to
do it. And then you have non-invasive
imaging technology that can monitor
their cancer to see whether or not it's
growing, whether or not it's stabilized,
or whether or not it's still there or
not.
So we don't need to be taken punch
biopsies and doing all this crazy stuff
to what are you doing biopsies for?
Everybody says, "Oh, I got to have a
biopsy of my cancer." Why? Oh, I want to
know if it's malignant. Well, if it's
malignant, you should never take a punch
biopsy. You could spread it all over the
damn body, right? And if it's a benign,
what the hell you sticking a benign
tumor for, right? So they want to get a
gene profile of the cells that come out
of your tumor to tell you what kind of a
a new drug a new toxic drug that will
target that mutation. But the damn cell
is using glucose and glutamine. Why
don't you target that before you stick
the tumor? I mean every everything we're
doing is like back ass forward. So
you know, it's it's you got to know what
to do.
How to do it. Educate people, educate
the practitioners, and things will begin
to change. Have to change. Can't
continue to do what we're doing. Yeah.
Yeah, I completely agree.
Um
Professor Seyfried, I'm I'm so
appreciative of your time. I don't want
I don't want to take your whole day.
Thank you so much for coming on. I I
really appreciate it. It's been an
absolute pleasure to to speak with you.
I've been I've been referencing your
work and pointing people towards you for
a number of years now and I I
really
really appreciate this opportunity to
speak with you. So thank you very much.
Well, thank you and I and I hope some of
this information
can help people.
Well, I think I know it will. Yeah. You
know, and our and our support that we
have
comes from philanthropy and private
foundations.
So obviously there are people
who recognize
what we are doing and what we are saying
and the strategies because they know
there are good people who say, "You're
doing the right thing. Let me support
what you're doing." Because it's very
hard to get the federal government
granting
systems through the National Cancer
Institute when everybody thinks cancer
is a genetic disease and you're coming
along telling them it's not. You don't
go very far in getting funds from for
for doing that kind of stuff. But yeah,
we'll keep pushing. We have good
preclinical the best preclinical model
systems, the best trained staff, and
knowledgeable staff. And we're not going
anywhere. We're pushing forward on this
until until the job is done.
So thanks
for listening and I hope this
helps your podcast audiences. Well, I
hope it does, too. And and there are
certainly people
you know, that that are suffering from
cancer or that would be you know, become
afflicted by it. And I think anyone
who's who sees this and has knows
someone with cancer, I I really
encourage them to send this over to them
so that they can really understand
what's going on and and actually really
understand that they have a lot more to
say in their own you know,
prognosis and recovery
than they might think they do. Professor
Seyfried, what's the best place for
people to find you and find your work?
And you know, you mentioned you know,
the letter that you or email that you
send out to people. Is there like a a
link to a website or something that
people can Yeah, there there's there's a
link to
the Foundation for Cancer Metabolic
Therapies.
We we we we obtain money
from private foundations. People also
support us through Boston College. You
know, they they they can direct funds
directly to my to my research program.
So so you know, these kinds of things.
And and believe it or not, yeah, we
more and more people
are coming out to support this.
Because
it's going it's going to have a greater
impact in supporting almost anything
else
in the cancer field. There's no question
about that. So the faster we get our
papers published the more evidence we
continue to our case reports, human case
reports. We work we do that. So I I help
the physicians write up the case reports
on the patients that have survived
longer than than would be expected.
Takes a lot of my time, of course. But
but I but I'm willing to do this. And we
and our peer-reviewed scientific
publications continue to push this field
forward. And this is it requires funding
to do this because we have the
animal costs, staff costs,
consumables you know, things that we use
equipment costs to maintain. So so
bottom line is yeah,
I send a letter out has information,
helps cancer patients make decisions,
try to get them in the right contacts,
people who understand what's going on,
and then they take it from there. So
this has been the plan so far. It seems
to be gaining more and more momentum
as more and more
word gets out about this whole cancer
thing.
And things begin to change.
Fantastic. Well, I I'll put up all all
those information and those links in the
description and I encourage people to go
and and visit and to donate if they if
they can possibly do so because I think
that this this sort of work is really
And the letters and the letters that I
send out it's not it's only donation if
you can if you feel that that's helped
you. You know, if something helps you,
you might consider donation. I'm not
asking anybody. It's only if the
information that I send is of value. And
I don't charge anything for this. You
know, the bottom line is is to get the
is to see the results
more than you know, anything else. And
that's I think that's the most important
thing at this stage. Yeah. No, I I I
completely agree. And there's a lot of
things that I do that I don't I don't
get paid for. I
you know, stay late and talk to people
and talk to people outside of the
hospital to try and to try and get them
better. Because that's Yeah. You know,
that's that's that's sort of why we're
here. And I and I you know, I think a a
lot of people a lot of doctors and and
researchers are still in that mindset.
But unfortunately some have forgotten
that or forgotten that it's even
possible to to do that anymore. You're
just sort of you're just sort of milling
these things out as as numbers,
unfortunately.
Yeah. Yeah.
Anyway, I'll let you go. Thank you very
much. And
thank you for the interview. Thank you.
I really appreciate it.